feat: Update Mesh Manager workflows by validating against GA UI (#6134)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/konnect/mesh-manager/service-mesh.md

---
title: Configure a Mesh Global Control Plane with the Kubernetes demo app
content_type: tutorial
beta: true
---

> Using Mesh Manager, you can create {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control planes to manage your {{site.konnect_saas}} mesh services. This tutorial explains how to configure a global control plane with {{site.mesh_product_name}} and the Kubernetes demo app. You will use Kubernetes to install various service mesh components.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using Mesh Manager, you can create {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control planes to manage your {{site.konnect_saas}} mesh services. This guide explains how to configure a global control plane with {{site.mesh_product_name}} and the Kubernetes demo app. You will use Kubernetes to install various service mesh components.
```

### Prerequisites

* [A Kubernetes cluster with load balancer service capabilities](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/service/#publishing-services-service-types)
* [`kubectl` installed and configured to communicate with your Kubernetes cluster](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl)
* [Download the latest version of {{site.mesh_product_name}}](/mesh/latest/production/install-kumactl/)

### Create and configure the global control plane

> 1. From the left navigation menu in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, open {% konnect_icon mesh-manager %} [**Mesh Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/mesh-manager).

Reviewer: ![image](https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/assets/23319190/3d3f44ca-2ff7-484c-bba6-0fb8c001db24)
```suggestion
1. From the left navigation menu in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, open {% konnect_icon mesh-manager %} [**Mesh Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/mesh-manager).
```

1. Click **New Global Control Plane**.

> 1. Enter "example-cp" in the **Name** field.
> 1. Click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Enter "example-cp" in the **Name** field and click **Save**.
```
Better to condense than to have a step that outlines the only option available.

> You now have a {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control plane. This control plane can't do anything at the moment because we need to connect a zone to it next.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now have a {{site.mesh_product_name}} global control plane. This control plane won't have any functionality until you connect a zone to it.
```

1. Follow the instructions that display to set up Helm and a secret token. 
    Once {{site.konnect_short_name}} finds the newly created zone, it will display it. 

You now have a very basic {{site.mesh_product_name}} service mesh added to {{site.konnect_short_name}}. This service mesh can only create meshes and policies at the moment, so we must add services and additional configurations to it.

## Add services to your service mesh using the Kubernetes demo app

Now that you've added a global control plane and a zone to your service mesh in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, you can add services to your mesh. You can use the {{site.mesh_product_name}} Kubernetes demo app to set up four services so you can see how {{site.mesh_product_name}} can be used to control services, monitor traffic, and track resource status.

The demo application consists of four services:

* `frontend`: A web application that lets you browse an online clothing store
* `backend`: A nodejs API for querying and filtering clothing items
* `postgres`: A database for storing clothing item reviews
* `redis`: A data store for the clothing item star ratings

> To add the services to your mesh using the demo app, run the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add the services to your mesh using the demo app, run the following command:
```

For more information about the Kubernetes demo app, see [Explore {{site.mesh_product_name}} with the Kubernetes demo app](/mesh/latest/quickstart/kubernetes/).

## Configure `kumactl` to connect to your global control plane

`kumactl` is a CLI tool that you can use to access {{site.mesh_product_name}}. It can create, read, update, and delete resources in {{site.mesh_product_name}} in Universal/{{site.konnect_short_name}} mode.

You connect `kumactl` to the global control plane in {{site.konnect_short_name}} so that you can run commands against the control plane.

1. From the left navigation menu in {{site.konnect_short_name}}, open {% konnect_icon mesh-manager %} [**Mesh Manager**](https://cloud.konghq.com/mesh-manager) and select the `example-cp` control plane.
1. Select **Configure kumactl** from the **Global Control Plane Actions** dropdown menu and follow the steps in the wizard to connect `kumactl` to the control plane.

> 1. Verify that the services you added from the previous section with the Kubernetes demo app are running correctly:

Author: @Guaris Here's what John said when I asked about what was supposed to be in the output (mine wasn't working when I ran it): https://github.com/Kong/docs.konghq.com/pull/6098#discussion_r1327841042

```bash
kumactl get dataplanes
```

> If your data planes were configured correctly with the demo app, it should return all four data planes in the output. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your data planes were configured correctly with the demo app, the output should return all four data planes. 
```
